h1. Wrath: Appease or Die! [v0.0.3alpha]

---

* "Github project (Spooner/wrath)":https://github.com/Spooner/wrath (including issue tracker and downloads)
* "Devlog @ libgosu forums":http://www.libgosu.org/cgi-bin/mwf/topic_show.pl?tid=554
* "Feedback @ TIGSource forums":http://forums.tigsource.com/index.php?topic=19459
* The game was developed by Spooner (Bil Bas) bil.bagpuss@gmail.com

h2. Description

_Wrath: Appease or Die!_ is a retro 2.5D game in which both players must make sacrifices and mayhem in order to appease the gods.

h2. Requirements

h3. Windows

If running <tt>wrath.exe</tt>, there are no other requirements.

h3. OS X [executable only works on 10.6!]

If running OS X 10.6, use the executable. If not, the only option is running from source (details below).

If running <tt>wrath.app</tt>, there are no other requirements.

NOTE: there is no .app file available for the current version of the game!

h3. Source for Linux (or Windows/OS X if not using the executable)

If using OS X 10.6, use the executable version (see above), otherwise you will need:

* Ruby 1.9.2 (Install via package manager or rvm)
** Gosu gem 0.7.32 (Dependencies: "Linux only":https://github.com/jlnr/gosu/wiki/Getting-Started-on-Linux)
** Chingu gem 0.9rc5
** Chipmunk gem 5.2.2.0
** Fidgit gem 0.0.5alpha
** Texplay gem 0.3.5

Both Gosu and Chipmunk _must_ be that exact version (not newer or older), or the game may not work.

h4. Using Bundler to install gems

In the game's main directory (with <tt>Gemfile</tt> in it), use Bundler to automatically install the correct gem versions:

<pre>
    bundle install
</pre>

If the Bundler gem isn't already installed, that can be installed with:

<pre>
    gem install bundler --no-ri --no-rdoc
</pre>

h3. Running the game

May need to use <tt>ruby19</tt> rather than <tt>ruby</tt>. Depends how you installed Ruby 1.9.2!

<pre>
    ruby bin/wrath.rbw
</pre>

h2. How to Play

On each level, the players (priests) have to attempt to sacrifice animals, people or treasures on the altar, in order to appease the gods and avoid the worst of their wrath. From sacrifice, the player gains holy favour (white bar) and the first to achieve a given level of favour wins. A priest also must avoid being killed. Losing all your health (red bar) will lead to losing the game.

Priests can move using 4 directional keys and  and also perform an action. An action can be pick up, throw, sacrifice, use A on B, etc., depending on context and is initiated using a single key. Controls can be configured in _Options->Controls_.

h3. 2 players sharing a keyboard

Player 1 controls the priest on the left-hand side. Player 2 controls the priest on the right-hand side.

* Player 1 controls: WASD + Space
* Player 2 controls: Arrow keys + RightShift

Note: The game only supports a single gamepad, so only one of the players may use one at a time. Enable this in _Options->Controls_.

h3. 2 players connected over the Internet/LAN

The host will need to ensure that the port (which can be configured) is open in their router if playing across the Internet. If this is not possible, it is recommended using something like "Hamachi 2 (unmanaged, free version)":https://secure.logmein.com/UK/products/hamachi2/download.aspx to avoid this.

Host controls the left-hand priest. Client controls the right-hand priest.

* Player controls: WASD + Space

h3. User settings

Wrath saves per-user settings in the <tt>~/.wrath_spooner</tt> folder (This is probably <tt>C:\Users\MyUsername\.wrath_spooner\</tt> on Windows). If you have problems, deleting this folder will return you to default settings.

h2. Credits

Many thanks to:

* SiliconEidolon for the initial brainstorming session that gave birth to the game.
* Spiderspit, SiliconEidolon, Ippa, Myx, Spaz and Banisterfiend for alpha play-testing and suggestions.
* Members of TIGSource who gave feedback in the the "Wrath topic":http://forums.tigsource.com/index.php?topic=19459.msg557507.
* Ippa for code snippets I stole; I mean, was given :)
* jlnr for making the OS X executable package (and putting up with helping me build it on Linux!).

h2. Third party assets used

* Most sprites were made by Oryx (or adapted from his work) from his "LOFI Sprite Pack":http://cgbarrett.squarespace.com/sprites/. These sprites are under the "CC BY-NC-ND":http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/ license.
* Original sprites created with "GIMP":http://www.gimp.org/
* Sound effects created using "bfxr":http://www.bfxr.net/
* "Pixelated" font - created by Affinity and Epsilon (see <tt>media/fonts/pixelated.txt</tt>)
* "Gosu":http://libgosu.org/ game development library
* "Chingu":http://ippa.se/chingu game library (extending Gosu)
* "Fidgit":https://github.com/Spooner/fidgit gui library (extending Chingu)
* "Texplay":http://banisterfiend.wordpress.com/2008/08/23/texplay-an-image-manipulation-tool-for-ruby-and-gosu/ image manipulation library for Gosu.
* "Chipmunk":http://github.com/beoran/chipmunk 2D physics library